In Nightmute, Alaska, teenager Kay Connell is found murdered. LAPD detectives Will Dormer and Hap Eckhart are sent to assist the local police with their investigation. An LAPD Internal Affairs investigation is about to focus on Dormer, and Eckhart reveals that he is going to provide testimony against Dormer in exchange for immunity. Ellie Burr, a young local detective, picks them up when they arrive.

Dormer lures the murderer to the scene of the crime, but the suspect flees in the fog, shooting a police officer through the leg. Dormer fires at a figure in the fog with his 9mm gun. Rushing to the fallen figure, Dormer picks up a .38 pistol that the suspect has dropped. He discovers that he has shot and killed Eckhart. Because of Eckhart's pending testimony, Dormer knows that Internal Affairs will never believe the shooting was an accident, so he claims that Eckhart was shot by the suspect, and conceals the .38 pistol.

Burr is put in charge of the shooting investigation, and her team finds the .38 caliber bullet that pierced the officer's leg. That night, Dormer walks to an alley and fires the .38 pistol into an animal carcass, then retrieves and cleans the bullet. At the morgue, the staffer hands him the bagged bullet retrieved from Eckhart's body, but she is unfamiliar with its type. He switches the .38 bullet for the 9mm slug from Eckhart's body.

Dormer is plagued by insomnia, brought on by his guilt for killing Eckhart and further exacerbated by the perpetual daylight.

He receives anonymous phone calls from the killer, who witnessed Dormer kill his partner. When the police learn that Kay was a fan of local crime writer Walter Finch, Dormer breaks into Finch's apartment in a nearby village. Finch realizes that the police are present, and evades Dormer. Dormer returns to Finch's apartment and plants the .38 to frame Finch.

Finch contacts Dormer and arranges a public meeting on a ferry. Finch wants help shifting suspicion to Kay's abusive boyfriend Randy Stetz and, in return, will stay silent about the Eckhart shooting. Dormer gives advice on handling police questioning. As Finch leaves Dormer on the ferry, he shows that he has recorded the conversation.

Finch calls Dormer and tells him that Kay's death was "an accident" — he beat her to death in a fit of rage. The next day, Finch gives false testimony at the police station. When Finch claims that Randy has a gun, Dormer realizes that Finch has discovered his plant, and has hidden it at Randy's home. Randy is arrested when the gun is found at his house. Finch asks Burr to come to his lake house the next day to collect letters indicating that Randy abused Kay.

Burr finds a 9mm shell casing at the shooting scene, which conflicts with the bullet type from Eckhart's body. She reads old case files from investigations that Dormer was involved in and learns that he has carried a 9mm, leading her to suspect that he shot Eckhart. Meanwhile, Dormer confides in the hotel owner, Rachel Clement, about the Internal Affairs investigation; he fabricated evidence to help convict a pedophile who he was certain was guilty of murdering a child.

Dormer learns that Burr has gone to Finch's apartment. He finds Kay's letters and realizes that Finch intends to kill Burr. He rushes to Finch's lake house, where Finch knocks Burr unconscious as Dormer arrives. Dormer is too disoriented from lack of sleep to fight off Finch. Burr revives and saves Dormer while Finch escapes. Burr reveals that she knows that Dormer shot Eckhart, and he admits that he is no longer certain that it was an accident. Finch shoots at them with a shotgun, and Burr returns fire while Dormer sneaks to Finch's location. Finch shoots Dormer, who shoots and kills Finch. Burr rushes to the fatally wounded Dormer's aid and comforts him by affirming that Eckhart's shooting was accidental. She moves to throw away the shell casing to preserve Dormer's secret, but Dormer stops her as he dies, telling her not to lose her way and to let him sleep.